Okay.
Given that we've made some significant changes to our main NAV component, I think now is a good time
to run our test suite.
So right here, I'm going to run my whole test suite with the command NPM run test colon unit that is
going to run every available test file in my code base.
And we're going to see what's going on here.
It's going to take a couple of seconds.
And we do have one test suite that is failing with five failing tests.
And if I scroll up.
It may not be readily apparent in this output, but this type error tells us the issue cannot be properly
state of undefined.
And the only place in my main nav component, by the way, this is coming from May.
Now, the only place in my main nav component where I have a reference to state is of course right here.
So we are accessing state on something that is undefined.
So why is this happening?
Well, you can probably guess in our test suite, we don't have this global store property available
on the this keyboard and thus we don't have access to state and this property.
Just like when it comes to view router, our test suite has no clue that view exists in our app and
that it's been added from our test suite perspective.
It's mounting the main nav component in isolation, so it has no clue what this global variable is.
So this evaluates to undefined and then it tries to access state on undefined.
And we get this error right here.
As I scroll up, you can see it's impacting quite a lot of tests and in case that error was not apparent
enough, if I scroll further up, we'll see some additional errors that may tell us that that we have
the same issue.
For example, here property store was access during render but is not defined on instance.
Right.
That tells us that once again, the tests don't know what dollar sign store is.
So let me open up may nav dot test.
And as you can probably guess by now, knowing everything that I've said many times, my personal preference
is to mark out the View Store.
My personal preference is to replace it with a mock object.
I can play the role because that makes the component much easier to test and it decouples us from the
real implementation.
With that said, I want to show you an alternate approach first of how we can actually test the component
using a real world view store.
All right.
So what we're going to do here in our main nav test file is we're going to import the create store function
from view.
This is the exact same function that we used in our actual app in the index touch's file in the store
folder.
So here I'm going to import that file or that export to be more specific.
And I'm going to modify my create config factory function right here to take a store.
And the way that we can figure something that is not a mock because keep in mind, we're going to be
using the real view stored here.
We're not going to be using a stand in or a replacement or a mock.
We're going to be using the real story here.
So what we need to do is tell the component, Hey, here is the real view store that I want you to register
with the component.
So it has an automatic reference to Dollar Sign Store.
The way we do that is on this global object that is part of our configuration object.
We can add a plugins property and we set plugins equal to an array of the various plugins that we want
to provide to the component.
And a plugin is any extension from a library.
So view router is an example, view acts as an example, etc..
So right here, whatever store I get into this create config factory function, which is going to be
a real view store.
I'm just going to provide into this plugins array.
All right.
So below I can show you a simple example of how this is going to work.
In our very first test right here, I'm going to create a real view X store.
We have our create store function so we can simply invoke it.
And normally this is where we would pass our configuration, where we can specify the store, state
the mutations, etc. But I just want it to be a very simple store with nothing in it that is totally
valid because I want to have the minimal store that I need in order to get the test to pass right.
So for the purposes of displaying the company name, that assertion has nothing to do with the store.
That's a totally separate part of our component.
The only thing I need is some kind of store right here so that this evaluation does not return undefined.
And neither does this that store, that state.
As soon as I plug in a real view X store, the test will plug in the view store right here, and thus
this property will exist, is logged in, will not exist.
But that will be fine because it won't cause a failure.
It'll simply evaluate to undefined.
So right here I'm going to sign this to a constant called store and I'm going to pass the store into
my create config factory function, which I'm using here in line.
So I'm going to pass store in here.
All right.
I'm going to repeat this exact same logic for every single test.
Let's see how far that gets us.
So I'm going to copy this line, bring it below in this test pass and store and to create config scroll
down here.
In this test, I create a store, pass it into our config function right here, create a store, pass
an entire config function.
And finally for this last test, create a new store, pass it into our config function.
All right.
And then I'm going to run NPM, run, test, colon, watch.
So we run in watch mode because I predict we are going to need to make a few more changes after this.
So as a reminder, we had five failing tests.
Now we have two.
So simply creating a store and giving the view x component some kind of reference here automatically
was enough to get three of those failures to go away.
Now let's explore the ones that are still failing.
If I scroll up here.
It's going to be the last two right here.
The ones that are under this described block of when a user logs in, when a user logs in, it displays
the user profile picture and when the user logs in, it displays the sub navigation menu with additional
information.
So now these renderings, of course, are based on the user being logged in, which is a piece of information
that exists in our view store.
So we simply cannot give an empty store in this scenario because we need an actual is logged in property
in order for this computed property to evaluate to true for our view to render that element in our HTML
template and for this to evaluate to be invalid.
So what I want to do is simplify these tests.
I know I said earlier that I generally prefer to have a test that behaves just like the user.
So I'd love to render a button, have the user click it and then verify that something else appears.
But given that it's a little bit more of a complex setup, I'm going to kind of flip that script around.
What I'm going to say is let's assume we have a view store in a given shape with a certain property,
with a certain value, and if the component has a store with that property in that value, here's what
we should expect to see.
So here's where my code is going to look like in this test.
All I really want to test for is that I'm displaying the user profile image, so I'm going to get rid
of all of this action related to the log in button and clicking it.
All right, I'm going to remove this logic as well for checking for the profile image not to exist before
the button click.
All right.
And so here I'm going to need to add a constant for profile image.
And here I'm going to configure a store that fits the criteria that I need in order to display a user
profile picture.
So right here, I'm going to provide an object and I'm going to configure this view store in this test
the exact same way that we configured our actual app view store.
So as a reminder, we provide a state method inside here and that state method returns an object and
that object comprises the global view state.
And of course, in order for the user profile picture to be displayed, I need this computed property
to return.
True.
So I need my state to have and is logged in property.
And I need that property to be true.
All right.
So I'm going to create the store with the specific settings I need.
I'm going to pass it into my configuration.
I'm going to mount the component, and then I'm going to test that the profile image is successfully
render and now we can see that test is passing.
So this is a is a way that we are testing that the View Store is correctly interacting with our component
and we are using indeed a real view store.
I promise in the very next lesson, we're going to come back to testing that click of the action button,
which is the logic that we removed from this test.
Let's do the exact same operation for this second test right here.
So this is testing for the display of the sub navigation menu.
It's going to be the exact same approach.
I'm going to remove the click of the login button.
I don't really care about checking.
The sun doesn't exist.
Before I click the button right here, I'm going to assign this to a contact and basically we need the
exact same store as we have above because we need the is logged in property set to true in order to
display the sub navigation menu.
As a reminder, both these sub nav right here and our profile image right here are using the VRF directive
connected to the is logged in computed property.
So they're both referencing the same part of the View X Store.
So I'm going to copy this store creation from this test and I'm going to put it right here.
Save that.
And now all of our tests pass.
All right.
So this is a way that we can test our component using a real view store.
And the benefit of this approach, even though we are coupling ourselves with the real view implementation,
is we can feed in a smaller version of the store still.
We can still follow many of the same principles that we talked about earlier in the course.
For example, if our real life store has 20 properties in our test, we don't need to create a store
with those 20 properties.
We just need to create a store with the properties we care about.
In this case, is logged in is the only property that needs to exist in the store in order for this
component to work.
So that's the only one that I'm going to provide in this test.
And this will hold true no matter what my real store looked like.
If I had 20 other properties, if I had 20 other mutations, etc. I don't need to have all those mutations
here.
I don't need to have all those properties here.
I just need the bare minimum that I need in order for for this test to pass and to assert that I'm delivering
the user value that I promise here.
All right.
And then, of course, in a couple lessons, I'm going to show you how we can solve this problem with
a mock store with a simpler JavaScript object.
One more thing that we can add in this lesson that I just noticed, we are no longer using any kind
of of weight a weight syntax so we can remove this async keyword right here.
There's nothing asynchronous going on and we can do the exact same thing in the function or test above.
Let me save that.
See if it still works.
And it does.
And that is all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.